apm: update data security (#18537)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/configure_data_security/_index.md

| URI userinfo        | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Python" %}}

**Note:** Client IP, geographic location, and URI parameters are not collected by default and must be enabled.

| Category            | Collected                       | Obfuscated                      |
|:--------------------|:-------------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
| Name                | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |
| Email               | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |
| Client IP           | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |
| Database statements | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |
| Geographic location | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |                                 |
| URI parameters      | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |
| URI userinfo        |                                 |                                 |

[1]: /tracing/trace_collection/compatibility/python/#datastore-compatibility
{{% /tab %}}

{{% /tabs %}}

> The Application Security Management product also collects the following HTTP data in traces (obfuscation is applied):
> 
> | Category     | Description                                                                                                                               |
> |:-------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | HTTP body    | The HTTP request or response payload, which may contain personal information that can be reasonable linked to an individual or household. |
> | HTTP cookies | The Set-Cookie HTTP response header sent by the server that can be sent by the user's browser in the HTTP request header.                 |
> | HTTP headers | The HTTP request or response headers.                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: I rather think this should link to the ASM documentation at our data privacy section at https://docs.datadoghq.com/security/application_security/how-appsec-works/#data-privacy

```suggestion
You can also read more about data privacy for the Application Security Management product at /security/application_security/how-appsec-works/#data-privacy
```

But not even sure you need this here.

Reviewer: That was my next feedback: what is said is not exactly true, and explaining in my link: we don't send those, but rather the subset that matched our security rules. This subset is where the obfuscation logic gets executed. But we never send the body, cookies, or headers as stated here. So I think our documentation state the right level of details for this.

Author: I understood that the subparts of the body, cookies, and headers that match security rules are sent after obfuscation, i.e., an HTTP header that matched a security rule would be obfuscated and sent with the trace for details on a security event. Is that accurate?

Author: Made the changes suggested by @Julio-Guerra, thanks!

| Name                | The real name of an internal user (your employee) or end-user.                                                                                 |
| Email               | The email address of an internal user (employee) or end-user.                                                                             |
| Client IP           | The IP address of your end-user associated with an incoming request or the external IP address of an outgoing request.                    |
| Database statements | The literal, sequence of literals, or bind variables used in an executed database statement.                                              |
| Geographic location | Longitude and latitude coordinates that can be used to identify an individual or household.                                               |
| URI parameters      | The parameter values in the variable part of the URI path or the URI query.                                                               |
| URI userinfo        | The userinfo subcomponent of the URI that may contain the user name.                                                                      |

> These categories are collected by the following language Tracing Libraries:

Author: We should clarify that collection pertains to the automatic instrumentation provided by each library.

> These categories are collected by the following language Tracing Libraries:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These data categories are collected by the automatic instrumentation provided by each of the following language tracing libraries:
```

| Geographic location | Never collected      |
| URI parameters      | Not collected by default, enabled with obfuscation      |
| URI userinfo        | Never collected      |

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "PHP" %}}

| Category            | How the data is collected      |
|---------------------|--------------|
| Name                | Never collected      |
| Email               | Never collected      |
| Client IP           | Never collected     |
| Database statements | Collected by default with obfuscation      |
| Geographic location | Never collected      |
| URI parameters      | Collected by default with obfuscation      |
| URI userinfo        | Collected by default with obfuscation      |

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Python" %}}

| Category            | How the data is collected      |
|---------------------|--------------|
| Name                | Collected by default without obfuscation      |
| Email               | Collected by default without obfuscation      |
| Client IP           | Not collected by default, enabled without obfuscation     |
| Database statements | Collected by default with obfuscation      |

> | Geographic location | Collected by default without obfuscation      |

Author: I was not sure how to specify here that this location is only collected by a single integration (algoliasearch queries can contain coordinates).

@kayayarai Is there a pattern we can use here to add a note for further information?

Reviewer 2: How about:
```suggestion
| Geographic location | Collected by default without obfuscation (by the [algoliasearch integration][1] only)      |
```

| URI parameters      | Not collected by default, enabled with obfuscation      |
| URI userinfo        | Never collected      |

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

[1]: /tracing/trace_collection/compatibility/python/#datastore-compatibility
```

|:--------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Name                | The full name of an internal user (your employee) or end-user.                                                         |
| Email               | The email address of an internal user (your employee) or end-user.                                                     |
| Client IP           | The IP address of your end-user associated with an incoming request or the external IP address of an outgoing request. |
| Database statements | The literal, sequence of literals, or bind variables used in an executed database statement.                           |
| Geographic location | Longitude and latitude coordinates that can be used to identify an individual or household.                            |
| URI parameters      | The parameter values in the variable part of the URI path or the URI query.                                            |
| URI userinfo        | The userinfo subcomponent of the URI that may contain the user name.                                                   |

> The table below describes the default behavior of each language tracing library with regard to whether a data category is collected and whether it is obfuscated by default.

Author: ```suggestion
The table describes the default behavior of each language tracing library with regard to whether a data category is collected and whether it is obfuscated by default.
```

| URI userinfo        |                                 |                                 |

[1]: /tracing/trace_collection/compatibility/python/#datastore-compatibility
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Ruby" %}}

**Note:** Client IP are not collected by default and must be enabled.

| Category            | Collected                       | Obfuscated                      |
|:--------------------|:-------------------------------:|:-------------------------------:|
| Name                | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |                                 |
| Email               | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |                                 |
| Client IP           | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |                                 |
| Database statements | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |                                 |
| Geographic location |                                 |                                 |
| URI parameters      | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> | <i class="icon-check-bold"></i> |
| URI userinfo        |                                 |                                 |

{{% /tab %}}

{{% /tabs %}}

> If you use Datadog Application Security Management (ASM), the tracing libraries collect HTTP request data to help you understand the nature of a suspicious request. Datadog ASM will automatically redact certain data and allows users to configure their own detection rules. You can learn more about these defaults and configuration options in the Datadog ASM [data privacy][13] documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use Datadog Application Security Management (ASM), the tracing libraries collect HTTP request data to help you understand the nature of a suspicious request. Datadog ASM automatically redacts certain data, and you can configure your own detection rules. Learn more about these defaults and configuration options in the Datadog ASM [data privacy][13] documentation.
```

---
## Overview

> The Tracing Library collects data from an instrumented application that are sent to Datadog as traces. Instrumentations may collect data like personally identifiable information. If you are ingesting sensitive data as traces into Datadog, remediations can be added at ingestion with [Sensitive Data Scanner][12]. You can also configure the Datadog Agent or the Tracing Library to remediate sensitive data at collection before traces are sent to Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog tracing libraries collect data from an instrumented application. That data is sent to Datadog as traces and it may contain sensitive data such as personally identifiable information (PII). If you are ingesting sensitive data as traces into Datadog, remediations can be added at ingestion with [Sensitive Data Scanner][12]. You can also configure the Datadog Agent or the tracing library to remediate sensitive data at collection before traces are sent to Datadog.
```

If the configurations described here do not cover your compliance requirements, reach out to [the Datadog support team][1].

### Sensitive data 

> Sensitive data categories are based on the possible risk(s) they may pose to an organization's data handling policies. Values from each of these categories can be collected in traces as span resource names and tags. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sensitive data categories are based on the possible risks they may pose to an organization's data handling policies. Values from each of these categories can be collected in traces as span resource names and tags. 
```

| Risk level | Description                                                                                                           | Examples                                                    |
|:-----------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|

> | High       | Data whose collection could result in a security or privacy risk to your organization                                 | Names, email, geographic location, IP addresses (end-users) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| High       | Data whose collection could result in a security or privacy risk to your organization                                 | Names, email, geographic location, IP addresses of end-users |
```

> | Moderate   | Data which by convention does not contain PII but can be subject to your organization's privacy and security policies | Service names, IP addresses (not end-users)                 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Moderate   | Data that by convention does not contain PII but can be subject to your organization's privacy and security policies | Service names, IP addresses (not end-users)                 |
```

> | Low        | Data which is available publicly or contains non-identifying system information                                       | Geographic region, host port                                |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Low        | Data that is available publicly or contains non-identifying system information                                       | Geographic regions, host ports                                |
```

> Values attributed to these categories are collected differently dependending on the language library. Generally, we refer to the following higher-risk categories:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Values attributed to these categories are collected differently dependending on the language library. Generally, the following are considered higher-risk categories:
```

| Data category       | Description                                                                                                                               |
|:--------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Name                | The real name of an internal user (employee) or end-user.                                                                                 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Name                | The real name of an internal user (your employee) or end-user.                                                                                 |
```

- 1: Collected by default without obfuscation
- 2: Collected by default with obfuscation
- 3: Not collected by default, enabled with obfuscation
- 4: Not collected always
- 5: Not collected by default, enabled without obfuscation

The Application Security Management product also collects the following HTTP data in traces (obfuscation is applied):

| Category     | Description                                                                                                                               |
|:-------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| HTTP body    | The HTTP request or response payload, which may contain personal information that can be reasonable linked to an individual or household. |
| HTTP cookies | The Set-Cookie HTTP response header sent by the server that can be sent by the user's browser in the HTTP request header.                 |
| HTTP headers | The HTTP request or response headers.                                                                                                     |

## Agent

### Resource names

> Datadog spans include a resource name attribute which may contain sensitive data. The Datadog Agent implements obfuscation for several known cases:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog spans include a resource name attribute that may contain sensitive data. The Datadog Agent implements obfuscation for several known cases:
```

If you are running in a containerized environment, set `DD_APM_IGNORE_RESOURCES` on the container with the Datadog Agent instead. See the [Docker APM Agent environment variables][7] for details.

```text

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

###### @param ignore_resources - list of strings - optional

###### A list of regular expressions can be provided to exclude certain traces based on their resource name.

###### All entries must be surrounded by double quotes and separated by commas.

###### ignore_resources: ["(GET|POST) /healthcheck","API::NotesController#index"]

```

## Library

### HTTP

> Datadog is standardizing a [span tag semantics][3] across tracing libraries. Information from HTTP requests are added as span tags prefixed with `http.`. The libraries support a number of configuration options to control sensitive data collected in HTTP spans.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog is standardizing [span tag semantics][3] across tracing libraries. Information from HTTP requests are added as span tags prefixed with `http.`. The libraries support a number of configuration options to control sensitive data collected in HTTP spans.
```

If you are running in a containerized environment, set `DD_APM_IGNORE_RESOURCES` on the container with the Datadog Agent instead. See the [Docker APM Agent environment variables][7] for details.

```text
###### @param ignore_resources - list of strings - optional

###### A list of regular expressions can be provided to exclude certain traces based on their resource name.

###### All entries must be surrounded by double quotes and separated by commas.

###### ignore_resources: ["(GET|POST) /healthcheck","API::NotesController#index"]

```

## Library

### HTTP

> Datadog is standardizing [span tag semantics][3] across tracing libraries. Information from HTTP requests are added as span tags prefixed with `http.`. The libraries support a number of configuration options to control sensitive data collected in HTTP spans.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog is standardizing [span tag semantics][3] across tracing libraries. Information from HTTP requests are added as span tags prefixed with `http.`. The libraries have the following configuration options to control sensitive data collected in HTTP spans.
```
